Since the beginning of civilization, human beings have used various natural resources
for their benefit. To make their life easier, they have produced facilities that use many
of the Earth’s energy resources. . On one side this kind of development makes our
lives easier, but on the other hand it results into pollution by release of harmful substance
into environment. Obviously, Rain is one of the most essential
ingredients for human and animal life. The water provided by rain allows all life on Earth to
 survive. And our activities have majorly brought us to face the problem that we call as 
"ACID RAIN". 
->
So what is Acid Rain?
Acid rain is any form of precipitation that contains high levels of nitric and sulfuric 
acids. It can also occur in the form of snow, fog, and tiny bits of dry material that settle to 
Earth. Normal rain is slightly acidic, with a pH of 5.6(due to CO2), while acid rain generally
 has a pH between 4.2 and 4.4(due to NO and SO2) 
Acid rain is also called acid
deposition because this term includes other forms of acidic precipitation as well such as
snow, fog, etc.
->
There are two types of deposition:1. Wet Deposition 2. Dry Deposition
Wet deposition refers to acidic rain, fog, and snow. If the acid chemicals in the air are
blown into areas where the weather is wet, the acids can fall to the ground in the form
of rain, snow, fog, or mist. As this acidic water flows over and through the ground, it
affects a variety of plants and animals. 

Acid deposition also occurs via dry deposition in the absence of precipitation.
In areas where the weather is dry, the acid chemicals may become incorporated into
dust or smoke and fall to the ground through dry deposition, sticking to the 
ground,buildings, homes, cars, and trees. Dry deposited gases and particles can be washed
from these surfaces by rainstorms, which causes increased runoff.
->
As you can see in the diagram that the oxides of Sulphur and Nitrogen which are emitted from
artificial sources rise up in the atmosphere to react with oxygen (from Ozone) 
to form sulphuric and nitric acid which are carried away by the winds 
to mix with the clouds and get dissolved to precipitate in the form of Wet deposition 
and Ammonia , where does it come from? It is released by the plants while carrying out 
their processes. Again, In the dry regions, the acids mix with smoke, dust and other gases in the air 
and are also carried away by the winds
and reach the earth's surface in the form of Dry deposition.
->
Now lets discusss about the Composition of acid Rain and the major Chemicals involved :- Sulphur 
dioxide (SO2) and oxides of nitrogen and ozone to some extent are the primary causes of acid rain.
 These constituents interact with reactants present in the atmosphere and result into 
acid deposition . Apart from these, 
 The natural sources of sulphur pollutants are oceans and to much smaller extent are from volcanic
eruptions. 

Now ,The artificial sources of SO2 emissions are the burning of coal and
petroleum and various industrial processes . Other sources
include the smelting of iron and other metallic (Zn and Cu) ores, manufacture of
sulphuric acids,  petroleum industry, etc .The
levels of NOx are small in comparison to SO2, but its contribution in the production
of acid rain is increasing day-by-day. This is it by me.
Now, Anj**a will carry forward the presentation and talk about the causes and more.
