Wireless communication is the electromagnetic transfer of information
between two or more points that are not connected by an electrical 
conductor.
The most common wireless technologies use radio waves.

why do we need Wireless Communication?
 The primary and important 
benefit of wireless communication is mobility.
Apart from mobility,
 wireless communication also offers flexibility and ease 
of use, which makes it increasingly popular day – by – day. 
Wireless Communication like mobile telephony can be made
anywhere and anytime with a considerably high throughput
performance.
Another important point is infrastructure. 
The setup and installation of infrastructure for wired 
communication systems is an expensive and time consuming
 job. The infrastructure for wireless communication can 
be installed easily and in low cost.
In emergency situations and remote locations, where the
 setup of wired communication is difficult, wireless 
communication is a viable option.


IN transmission part, The redundant information from 
signal is removed  
in order to maximise the utilization of resources.
 This signal is then encrypted using an Encryption 
Standard so that the signal and the information is 
secured and doesn’t allow any unauthorised access.
Channel Encoding is a technique that is applied to the 
signal to reduce the impairments like noise, interference,
 etc.
The modulated signal is then multiplexed with other signals 
using different Multiplexing Techniques like Time Division
 Multiplexing (TDM) or Frequency Division Multiplexing (FDM) 
to share the valuable bandwidth.
The job of the Receiver is to collect the signal from the
 channel and reproduce it as the source signal.
From the components of the reception path it is clear 
that the task of the receiver is just the inverse to 
that of transmitter.

Satelite communication:
Satellite Communication System is an important type of Wireless
Communication. Satellite Communication Networks provide 
worldwide coverage independent to population density.
   How satellites work. A satellite is basically a self-contained 
communications system with the ability to receive signals from 
Earth and to retransmit those signals back with the use of a 
transponder—an integrated receiver and transmitter of radio signals.
     There are over 2500 satellites in orbit round the earth. 
These are used for numerous tasks such as GPS navigation, 
satellite phone communication, satellite internet, television 
broadcasting and many more.

RAdio Communication:
Radio reaches consumers on the go – wherever or whenever they 
want it – live or via streams, apps, podcasts and across devices
like smartphones, tablets, laptops, computers, smart TVs or smart 
speakers.
With online radio listening growing to 180 million monthly


Geolocation is the identification or estimation of the 
real-world geographic location of an object, such as a 
radar source, mobile phone, or Internet-connected 
computer terminal.​


WIFI :
We are going to talk about about Wifi.
But, Can you imagine life without WiFi technology? 
Well, it has become almost impossible to live without it especially
for us when we are in college. 
WiFi is a thing we almost take for granted these days, 
yet it’s one of the few things we can’t live without. 
And therefore, new WiFi has become a part and parcel 
of our lives due to the ease of accessibility that it brings 
about in the connectivity which we so much require.

Disadvantages: 
 Since the signals are transmitted in open space, 
it is possible that an intruder can intercept the 
signals and copy sensitive information.
Continuous exposure to any type of radiation can be 
hazardous. Even though the levels of RF energy that 
can cause the damage are not accurately established,
 it is advised to avoid RF radiation to the maximum.