How are Ecosystems self sustained?
->Either sunlight or some other source of energy is exploited by living organisms 
which transform nonliving materials into their own biomass which is subsequently 
consumed or otherwise utilized by yet other organisms in a biogeochemical system (ecosystem).
Ecosystems are sustained by the energy that flow through them. We have the producers that
produce their own food (plants and Cyanobacteria (blue-green algae)) and they may be called the 
backbone of the ecosystem. And then , we also have the consumers(Carnivores, hervivores, omnivores,
 decomposers) that consume plants or other creatures to obtain the nutrients they require 
to survive. Since Energy can be neither created nor destroyed. It can only be transformed from
one form to another, we can clearly see this in our sustainable ecosystem.The ecosystem is an 
open system, meaning that it exchanges matter and energy with the outside.
The ecosystem is an open system, meaning that it exchanges matter and energy with 
the outside. When the composition of the soil or the air changes because of variable
flows of matter, or when climate changes, the populations of living beings have to adapt 
to their new environment, or they are likely to die.
Ecosystem has innumerable feeding pathways or food chains through
which energy flows. 
Through the adaptation to ever-changing climate conditions and the recycling of matter,
flows of energy of matter are circular, and the ecosystem is a self-sustaining system.

@First law of thermodynamics
o Energy can be neither created nor destroyed. It can only be transformed from
one form to another
@Second law of thermodynamics
o when energy changes from one form to another form, or matter moves freely,
entropy (disorder) in a closed system increases.
o During energy is transferred or transformed, more and more of it is wasted.

What is tropic level for an ecosystem?
->Trophic levels are the feeding positions of all organisms in a specific ecosystem.
 You can think of them as food chain levels or as a trophic level pyramid. The first 
trophic level, or base, of an ecosystem has the highest energy concentration. This 
energy is dispersed among animals in the subsequent three or four levels. The first 
and lowest level contains the producers, green plants. The plants or their products 
are consumed by the second-level organisms—the herbivores, or plant eaters. At the 
third level, primary carnivores, or meat eaters, eat the herbivores; and at the fourth
 level, secondary carnivores eat the primary carnivores. These categories are not 
strictly defined, as many organisms feed on several trophic levels; for example, 
some carnivores also consume plant materials or carrion and are called omnivores, 
and some herbivores occasionally consume animal matter. A separate trophic level, 
he decomposers or transformers, consists of organisms such as bacteria and fungi 
that break down dead organisms and waste materials into nutrients usable by the producers. 

What is Carbon Cycle? for more : https://byjus.com/biology/carbon-cycle/
->Carbon cycle shows the movement of carbon in elemental and combined states on earth. 
Diamond and graphite are the elemental forms of carbon and in combined state, it is found 
as carbonates in minerals and as carbon dioxide gas in the atmosphere.

Following are the major steps involved in the process of the carbon cycle:
@Carbon present in the atmosphere is absorbed by plants for photosynthesis.
@These plants are then consumed by animals, and carbon gets bioaccumulated 
into their bodies.
@These animals and plants eventually die, and upon decomposing, carbon is 
released back into the atmosphere.
@Some of the carbon that is not released back into the atmosphere eventually 
become fossil fuels.


Carbon is stored on our planet in the following major pools:
o as organic molecules in living and dead organisms found in the biosphere;
o as the gas carbon dioxide in the atmosphere;
o as organic matter in soils;
o in the lithosphere as fossil fuels and sedimentary rock deposits such as limestone
(CaCO3) , dolomite (CaMg(CO3)2) and chalk;
o in the oceans as dissolved atmospheric carbon dioxide and as CaCO3
shells in
marine organisms.
@These fossil fuels are then used for man-made activities, which pumps more carbon back
into the atmosphere.

What is Endogenic and exogenic cycles?
->The earth’s surface is being continuously sub­jected to external forces originating within
 the earth’s atmosphere and by internal forces from within the earth. The external forces are
 known as exogenic forces and the internal forces are known as endog­enic forces.

What is Nitrogen cycle? for details : https://kids.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/frym.2019.00041
->The nitrogen cycle is a repeating cycle of processes during which nitrogen 
moves through both living and non-living things: the atmosphere, soil, water, 
plants, animals and bacteriaMicroscopic living organisms that usually contain 
only one cell and are found everywhere. Bacteria can cause decomposition or 
breaking down, of organic material in soils.. In order to move through the 
different parts of the cycle, nitrogen must change forms. In the atmosphere, 
nitrogen exists as a gas (N2), but in the soils it exists as nitrogen oxide, 
NO, and nitrogen dioxide, NO2, and when used as a fertilizer, can be found in 
other forms, such as ammonia, NH3, which can be processed even further into a
 different fertilizer, ammonium nitrate, or NH4NO3.

Stages of Nitrogen Cycle:
1.Nitrogen Fixation: In this stage, nitrogen moves from the atmosphere into the soil. 
2.Mineralisation : This stage takes place in the soil. Nitrogen moves from 
organic materials, such as manure or plant materials to an inorganic form
 of nitrogen that plants can use.
3.Nitrification : The third stage, nitrification, also occurs in soils. 
During nitrification the ammonia in the soils, produced during mineralization, 
is converted into compounds called nitrites, NO2−, and nitrates, NO3−.
4.Immobilisation : The fourth stage of the nitrogen cycle is immobilization, 
sometimes described as the reverse of mineralization. These two processes together 
control the amount of nitrogen in soils.
5.Dentrification : In the fifth stage of the nitrogen cycle, nitrogen returns to the 
air as nitrates are converted to atmospheric nitrogen (N2) by bacteria through the 
process we call denitrification.

Sulphur Cycle : https://byjus.com/biology/sulphur-cycle/
Phosphorus Cycle : https://biologydictionary.net/phosphorus-cycle/

Sustainability : for details-> https://www.environmentalscience.org/sustainability
